# CapstoneProjectModule3

# **Business Problem Understanding**

### **Context**

Bike-sharing systems are a new generation of traditional bike rentals where the whole process, from membership, rental, and return back, has become automatic. Through these systems, a user can easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousand bicycles. Today, great interest exists in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental, and health issues.

Apart from interesting real-world applications of bike-sharing systems, the characteristics of data generated by these systems make them attractive for research. Unlike other transport services such as buses or subways, the duration of travel, departure, and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns the bike-sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that the most important events in the city could be detected by monitoring these data.

### **Problem Statement**

One of the biggest challenges faced by the bike-sharing systems is determining what kind of condition that would attract a lot of potential users in renting their bikes. Collecting such data daily and studying its pattern may grant benefits to the company in predicting which specific day or season and whatever condition that leads to a massive amount of potential users.

Despite all the easabilities provided, however bike-sharing systems still face drawbacks in certain aspect where one of them has to do with weather condition. Normally, a clear weather or a cloudy one would attract majority of users in renting bikes, while certain conditions like a few mist and cloudy scenery or perhaps light rain may still be considered acceptable for some users. However when the weather goes to an extreme length such as heavy rain, thunderstorm, thick snow, or massive fog, almost none of the potential users would be willing to rent a bike. Other factors such as season and holiday festivity also play a part in tracking a number of consistent user daily. The systems alone cannot predict the pattern of ongoing users based on these factors mentioned, therefore it is very important to study how these factors correlate with each other which will generate a lot of potential users in renting their bikes.

### **Goals**

As a **Data Analyst**, it is required by the **Bike-Sharing Company Director** as the stakeholder to build a Machine Learning model that is capable in predicting what is the most optimum condition in attracting a massive number of renters based on underlying factors such as weather condition, season, and holiday festivity. With the right usage of prediction model, it may assist bike-sharing company to generate income by studying its pattern and at the same time, minimize the losses subjected from bike maintenance and potential risks from vandalism and theft incidents.

### **Analytic Approach**

In order to determine what kind of condition that would attract a lot of potential users in renting bikes, the approach would be performing a data analysis to explore and gather patterns existing within data, followed by generating a regression type model as a testing method in checking whether there is a existing correlation between various features and number of bike renters in the form of math equation. The regression type model will also be utilized to predict the most optimum condition in attracting a massive number of renters so the bike-sharing company can gather insights on what various business strategy that can be implemented during such scenario which is profitable for the company.

### **Metric Evaluation**

Chosen metric evaluation for regression type model would be RMSE, MAE, and MAPE. Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) is the square root of the mean squared error between the predicted and actual values. Mean Absolute Error (MAE) is the mean absolute difference between the actual and the predicted values. Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) is the mean of all absolute percentage errors between the predicted and actual values. The smaller the values generated by RMSE, MAE, and MAPE, the more accurate the model would be in making prediction.

Besides that, other metric evaluation such as R-Squared and Adjusted R-Squared may be utilized if the chosen final model would be a linear model. R-Squared value refers to the coefficient of determination used for a regression type model to measure how great is a regression line in representing data. R-Squared value lies between 0 - 1 and it is expected to be as high as possible. The closer it gets to 1, the better the regression line in representing data.
